'\" t
.\"     Title: Bitcoin Toolkit
.\"    Author: [see the "Authors" section]
.\"      Date: 01/18/2023
.\"    Manual: Bitcoin Toolkit Manual
.\"    Source: Bitcoin Toolkit 3.1.2
.\"  Language: English
.\"
.TH "BTK-CONFIG" "1" "12/11/2023" "Bitcoin Toolkit 3.1.2" "Bitcoin Toolkit Manual"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "NAME"
btk-config \- Configure command option default values.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fIbtk\fR \fIconfig\fR [--set <option_key>=<option_val>]
           [--unset <option_key>]
           [--dump]
.fi

.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.sp
Set default values for command options so that they do not need to be specified for each time a command is executed.
.sp
Currently this is limited to just the --hostname and --rpc-auth options to help simplify creating and updating the balance database. Future releases will expand on the number of options available.

.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"

.PP
--set <option_key>=<option_val>
.RS 4
Set a default value for option_key. The option_key is equivalent of the "long opt" version of an option without the preceding double-hyphens (i.e. the key for --hostname is "hostname"). When a command is executed requiring this option, the value will be set automatically. You can still override the default value from the command line.
.sp
Valid keys are currently limited to "hostname" and "rpc-auth" (--hostname and --rpc-auth options respectively).
.RE

.PP
--unset <option_key>
.RS 4
Remove the default value for option_key.
.RE

.PP
--dump
.RS 4
Dump all configuration keys and values.
.RE

.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"

.sp
\fBbtk\fR(1), \fBbtk-balance\fR(1)