'\" t
.\"     Title: Bitcoin Toolkit
.\"    Author: [see the "Authors" section]
.\"      Date: 01/18/2023
.\"    Manual: Bitcoin Toolkit Manual
.\"    Source: Bitcoin Toolkit 3.0.0
.\"  Language: English
.\"
.TH "BTK" "1" "01/18/2023" "Bitcoin Toolkit 3.0.0" "Bitcoin Toolkit Manual"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "NAME"
btk-utxodb \- Query utxo data from bitcoin core.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fIbtk\fR \fIutxodb\fR -p <path>
.fi
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
If you run btk on a full bitcoin node running bitcoin core, the 'utxodb' command takes a transaction hash from standard input and allows you to query the unspent transaction data from the utxo database. The utxo database does not exist by default. To create it you must set txindex=1 in your bitcoin.conf file and restart bitcoin core. The first time you do this, core will build a database containing info for every unspent transaction output that currently exists. This takes some time. Once complete, the 'utxodb' command can query and display unspent transaction data from that database.
.sp
Because bitcoin core keeps a persistant lock on the utxo database, you will need to either stop bitcoin core, or make a copy of the database, before you can access it.

.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"

.PP
\-p <path>
.RS 4
Specify the path to bitcoin core's utxo database. By default, it is located in the \"chainstate\" directory within bitcoin core's default installation directory.
.RE

.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"

.sp
\fBbtk\fR(1), \fBbtk-pubkey\fR(1), \fBbtk-address\fR(1)