."     Title: btk-keypair
."    Author: Brian Barto
."      Date: 01/22/2018
.TH "btk-keypair" 1 "01/23/2018" "1.0" "btk-keypair User Manual"
.SH NAME
btk-keypair - Generate public and private key pairs.
.SH SYNOPSIS
btk keypair [-n ]
            [-C | -U | -H] [-D <delim>]
            [-N]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The keypair command outputs a public and private key, in the format specified, with an option to specify a delimiter between the two to help with parsability.
.PP
Only one input option is supported at this time, which generates a new private key from your local CSPRNG. While the option is listed below, there is no need to specify it as it will be on by default.
.PP
Supported output formats are compressed WIF/address, uncompressed WIF/address, and hexidecimal.
.SH OPTIONS
.B Input Options
.TP
.B -n
Generate a new key pair from your local CSPRNG. This option is the default when no other input option is specified.
.PP
.B Output Options
.TP
.B -C
Compressed output. The private key will be displayed in compressed WIF format. The public key will be displayed as the corresponding compressed address.
.TP
.B -U
Uncompressed output. The private key will be displayed in uncompressed WIF format. The public key will be displayed as the corresponding uncompressed address.
.TP
.B -H
Hexidecimal output. Both the public and private keys will be displayed in their hexidecimal formats.
.TP
.B -D <delim>
The specified delimiter will be used in the output of the key pairs. By default this is a single space. This option is provided for wrappers and other programs that may need to parse the output of this command.
.PP
.B Misc Options
.TP
.B -N
Append a newline character to the output so the command prompt starts on the next line. This is generally used for easier reading.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
btk-privkey(1), btk-pubkey(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Barto ( https://github.com/bartobri )
